## What we will learn this section?

**What is Docker Container?**
    Containers are the fundamental buliding block of the docker tool kit. Its main benefit is to package applications in **containers** allowing them to be portable among any system running the Linux operating system (OS).

>This section we not gonna build images or any advance staff untill we know what container are?, how to run them?, different from vm and other basic functionality.

First thing we  want to do,
- Check version of docker cli and engine.
- Learn comman container management commands. Like, started, stopped, created, deleted etc.
- Create a Nginx (web server) container.
    + Ngnix is very basic web server. Just for easy for use. Just to learn docker commands and how to do docker container staff.
- Docker networking basic.
- Requirements: Have latest Docker installed from last section.


> Now we go to some test. Open your linux or mac shell / terminal. If you are a windows user than open your windows shell.

First check our docker version.

**Command:** `docker version`

```
Client:
 Version:           18.06.1-ce
 API version:       1.38
 Go version:        go1.10.4
 Git commit:        e68fc7a
 Built:             Fri Oct 19 19:43:14 2018
 OS/Arch:           linux/amd64
 Experimental:      false

Server:
 Engine:
  Version:          18.06.1-ce
  API version:      1.38 (minimum version 1.12)
  Go version:       go1.10.4
  Git commit:       e68fc7a
  Built:            Thu Sep 27 02:39:50 2018
  OS/Arch:          linux/amd64
  Experimental:     false
```

If you command `docker info` than you will see all info of your **Docker**.

```
Containers: 0
 Running: 0
 Paused: 0
 Stopped: 0
Images: 0
Server Version: 18.06.1-ce
....
```

If we type on terminal just `docker` than we will see lot of commands. But here are not all commands. When you command `docker` you will see *Management Commands:*. Here we can customize docker commands.

###Review:

- command: docker version
    + verified cli can talk to engine.
- command: docker info
    + most config values of engine.
- docker command line structure.
    + old command: docker <command> (option) *still works*
    + new command: docker <command> <sub-command> <option>
