# Assignment Using Containers for CLI Testing

The requirements for this assignment is that we have gone through some of the lecture in the past around a command shell inside the containe, and also some of the basics around Linux distributions and how they might differ and running a container.

- Know how to use `-it` to get a shell in container.
- Understand basics of what a Linux distribution is like Ubuntu and CentOS
- Know how to run a container :p

Here is another assignment for you and it is going to be a little different than out traditional developer-mmets-container scanrio. But it is just as valid and just as common in the real world. In the past we might have set up a whole virtual machine just ot simply test something like a different command line version or different Linux distribution. But with container that get WAY easier.

Imagine yourselt being a support engineer for a server farm that runs both Ubuntu and CentOS and a ticket comes in that asks you to chekc on the different curl version in those two distribution.

So in the old, pre-container world, you had probably have to set up a virtual environment and wait for operating systems to install unless you had them ready. But in this world we can actually just run a few commands.

- User differnet Linux distro containers to check curl cli tol verison
- User two different terminal windows to start ash in both centos:7 and ubuntu:14.04, using `-it`.
- Learn the docker container `--rm` option so you can save cleanup.
- Ensure curl is installed and on latest version for that distro
    + ubuntu: apt-get update && apt-get install curl
    + centos: yum update curl
- Check `curl --version`
- 


SO really the goal here is just to run the curl version command inside two different Linux distributions in just a few minutes. So We will be using the centos:7 version. And then the ubuntu:14.04 version. You will want ot use the `-it` on your docker run command and give it the bash command at the end.

Then there is a new option you shold try, which is the `--rm` will save you some time. We recommend looking that up through Help on the command line or through the Docker SUpport site at *docks.docker.com*.

You definitely want two different terminal windows so you can switch back and froth between these two and in order to run th ecurl version command, you are going to need to update ech one of the distributions or check whether or not curl installed.

We have given you some commands there that they are a little bit different between the two. Really this exercise is not going to viven you an interesting output. It is really just helping you understand how easy and quick you can just into differnet software or linux distribution, run some tools and then getout.

In the end we would expect you to have differnet curl version those two distribution.
