## Starting Nginx Web Server.

This section we will learn about,
- image vs container.
- run/stop/remove containers.
- check container logs and processes.

### Difference between images and containers.
- An Image is the binaries and libraries and source code that all make up your application. Actually it a application thats we want to run.
- A Container is a running instance of that image.
- You can have many containers running off the same image.
- This section our image will be the Nginx (open source) web server.
- Docker's default image **registry** is called [**Docker Hub**](https://hub.docker.com/).

> Here we will use open source Nginx web server. So we will be starting our containers based off that Nginx image. We get all our images from registries. Registries are kind of like Github source code. Image registries are for container images and the default one for **Docker** is **Docker Hub**.

> Now we are playing with docker container.

Command: `docker container run --publish 80:80 nginx`

Than open your browser and go `localhost`. You will see **Nginx** server is running.

Sometime **80** post is already use other appliction. Like, Apace, postgresql others app. SO your can change your **Nginx** server port.

Command: `docker container run --publish 80:81 nginx`

This time you have to go, `localhost:81`

> Here docker engine actually looked for an image called nginx, and it pulled down the lates image for nginx from Docker Hub. Then it started it as a new process in a new container for us to use.

> The published part of the command exposes my local port 80 or (your set port) on my local machine and sends all traffc from it to the executable running inside that container on port 80. And since Nginx is a web server it's going to default to port 80 and the traffic just forwards automatically through my browser to my local host and into that container.

### Docker container run --publish 80:80 nginx
1.  Download image 'nginx' from Docker Hub.
2.  Started a new container from the image.
3.  Open port 80 (or set up port) on the host IP.
4.  Routes the traffic to the container IP, port 80.

But the the server running we can not use the same terminal. So We do not use always this running the foreground inside of our command line. So lets hit Ctrl+C and stopped server.

Now type this command:

`docker container run --publish 81:80 --detach nginx`
> 2283b369fb7027da846d1405b9b484a8b7aa8fde8fcb2992f377f416143ddd9e

Here `--detach` tells **Docker** to run **Nginx** server in the background. Here you get back the unique container ID of our container. And everying your run a new container you get a new unique ID. So let's do a command to list our containers.

Command: `docker container ls`

Here We see the one server still running here. It's matching the container ID of the command we just run. We see the container the container still running that we just started. So let's stop the container.

Command: `docker container stop 2283`

`2283` is few desigt of unique ID of docker container.

Now if we type `docker container ls` you will see the server is stoped. Here `ls` command only shows by default running containers.

Type this command: `docker container ls -a`

Here we see all containers history. We we ran each time the docker container run command, it started a new container from that Nginx image. You will notice on the right here that there's these random name. We do nto use these but how did we get these? The container ID is always created for us and the **name** is also required to be unique. If we don't specify it than it will be created randomly for us.

Now lets start a new container. This time we specify name,

`docker container run --publish 81:80 --detach --name wh nginx`

Now if we command: `docker container ls -a` than see our setup name.

```
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED              STATUS                         PORTS                NAMES
e0897757cd5f        nginx               "nginx -g 'daemon of…"   About a minute ago   Up About a minute              0.0.0.0:81->80/tcp   wh
```

Now we can check container logs. Go to browser and refresh the nginx page couple of time and type,

Command: `docker container logs wh`

We will see all logs. We can also use some other docker container commands to check on that running container.

Command: `docker container top wh`

Now for Nginx we do not need to necessarily know all this but it is just interesting to note that with Nginx, there is actually a master process and then it spawns worker processes based on the confuguration. If we type,

Command: `docker container --help`

We will see all commands of container. Now lets clean up all containers.

Command: `docker container ls -al`

We will see all containers list. Now we will remove all container in single command.

Command: `docker container rm 9491 ae2f 4904 4514 bc06`

May be you got a error just like me. You will see all container is stopped but your current container is work properly. So we have to stop firt the running server than we can remove it,

Command:
```
docker container stop e089
docker container rm e089
```

Or we can force to remove this,

Command: `docker container rm -f e089`

Now type `docker container ls -a` than you will see all container are remove.

So we learn able to use a single command to download and run **Nginx web server** with default configuration listening on port 80 and then we were able to create several of those and play with the logs and then remove the containers to clearn up what we had done.

> Now we will learn what happen when we run `docker container run` command.

Here have a miss conception that docker is just running container that is main job. But actually this work so much in background. So when we types docker container run,

1. Looks for the image locally in image cache.
2. If does not find anything then looks in remote image repository (default to **Docker Hub**).
3. Downloads the latest version (nginx: latest by default). That means if we did not specify nginx version than it is just choosen latest version. 
4. After one image is ready to go than Create new container based on that image (its not copy of any image. Actually going to start new layer of changes.) and prepares to start.
5. Then it is goint to Give a virtual IP on a private network inside docker engine.
6. Actually it is Opens up port (80 or we specify) and forwards to port 80 in container. If we did not specify `--publish` command than its not gonna open any port.
7. After containe rby using the CMD in the image Dockerfile.

### Example of changing the Defaults

`docker container run --publish 81:80 --name webhost -d nginx:1.11 nginx -T`

Here

- `81:80`     -> change host listening port
- `1.11`      -> change version of image
- `nginx -T`  -> change command run to start

