# Docker Container VS VM

If you go look arounf on the web for divination what is container you will see most of the people comparing container is a virtual machine. True Container and virtual machine have some similarity but so many thing they are not same.

### Container are not Mini-VM's
- They are just processes. Process runing your host operating system in Linux.
- limited to waht resources they can access.
- Exit when process stop.

Let's run mongo database.
`docker run --name mongo -d mongo`

We can check mongo is running or not this command,

Command: `docker ps`

```
93a932f6b4b5        mongo               "docker-entrypoint.s…"   45 seconds ago      Up 39 seconds       27017/tcp           mongo
```

**Docker** also has docker top that's let us list the process is the running inside spacefic container.

Command: `docker top`

```
UID                 PID                 PPID                C                   STIME               TTY                 TIME                CMD
999                 24246               24226               1                   18:35               ?                   00:00:02            mongod --bind_ip_all
```


We can also do this from host. Because is just a process running in out operating system. Any host tools I can used looked it process is gonna see the process.

Command: `ps sux`

You will see all the list process of your OS. But you will notice that mongod has different process id.

`999      24246  0.9  0.9 1089992 76552 ?       Ssl  18:35   0:03 mongod --bind_ip_all`

If we stop this container then the process is stop.

Command: `docker strop mongo`

If you check this,

Command: `docker ps`

If we type,

Command: `docker top mongo`

Its not give us anything because the container is not running. If we check process list mongo is running or not using this command,

Command: `ps aux | grep mongo`

`grep` is filtering command and look trhough the output.

`jaki      2615  0.0  0.0  21872  1060 pts/0    S+   18:51   0:00 grep --color=auto mongo`

We will see mongo process is running. If we start again for docker container then container will start again

Command: 
```
docker start mongo
docker ps
docker top mongo
```

We will see mongo db process.
