# CLI Process Monitoring In Containers

In this section, requirements are that you know to start a container. We are going to be doing at the command line here is running Docker command to understand what's going on inside a running container. There is multiple ways that we can see what is going on in there.

We have covered the top command, Which is a process list of what is halening inside the container, but there is other stuff we can do as well.

We can use the inspect command to actually see the details fo how the container started and how it si configured.

We can look at the stats command which actually gives us a view of all of out containers and the performance statistices for each one of them in a real time stream.

- `docker container top` 
    + process list in one container.
- `docekr container inspect`
    + details of one container config.
- `docker container stats`
    + performance stats for all container.

In order to look at some of these commands and how they act with containers, we are going to actually start a few containers. The first onw we are going to start is an Nginx contaienr like we have done befoure.

Command: `docker container run -d --name nginx nginx`

> 0e313294d2fdeff0696a7cb270ef409ef557e8357f4626175575ebdf0be9e5cb

Now the secound one we will sue is anther MySQL server.

`docker container run -d --name mysql -e MYSQL_RANDOM_ROOT_PASSWORD=true mysql`

> ddc55c4a06e0e76b20a115c2d09d15ff5bc61512f11ec7023b48510f140a5698

Note that with the mysql image, as you can read on **Docker Hub**, it will tell you that you have to specify one of three option for the password. You can,

- specify a password in the command line, 
- you can let in use no password, or 
- you can do what I have done here which will have it, on first boot.

Create a random password lie we did in the exerchse last assignment answear.

Now if we check than we will see two container is running.

Command: `docker container ls`

```
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                 NAMES
ddc55c4a06e0        mysql               "docker-entrypoint.s…"   11 seconds ago      Up 9 seconds        3306/tcp, 33060/tcp   mysql
0e313294d2fd        nginx               "nginx -g 'daemon of…"   16 minutes ago      Up 16 minutes       80/tcp                nginx
```

If we just specify the mysql, we will see that it actually lists the processes running inside that container. And we can do the same thing and that lists the processes is running that container.

Command:
```
docker container top mysql
docker container top nginx
```

Another way to look at how this container is configured when it was started and all od its metadata config, we can actually use the inspect command.

Command: `docker container inspect mysql`

And we get back a JSON array of all the data about how this container was started. It si a lot of data about container but as interesting as this config data is, it does not tell us anything about the active container and what it is doing.

> Note: `docker container inspect` is old way. Show metadata about the contaienr (startup config, columes, networks etc).

Lets type,

Command: `docker container stats --help`

You will see that it allows us to actually specify a container to only show that. Or, if we just leave it empty and just type,

Command: `docker container stats`

We actually get back a streaming view of live performance data about our containers. You will see by the **CPU** column that every few seconds something is changing.

> Note: `docker container stats` is old way. Show live perdormance data for all containers.

Obviously in a production environment we are going to have a more complicated monitoring and performance solution for tracking all this stuff. But it's really great for local machines where you need to make sure that you are not exhausting your machine's RAM. Because maybe you have to big of database, or they are not filling up the hard drive because of an out of control process.

This is a quick command to just make sure that everything is within its memory its memory limits, and that it is not using a top of networkig and the block I/O is actually for your disk performance. As yuou can see, these containers are not really doing anything because we have not asked them to do anything. TO get out of this **Ctrl + C**.

> Just to recap what we did in this section. We actually first used the docker **contaienr top** command to list all the processes that will be running in a single container. Then we got into **contaienr inspect**. In container inspect. We can actually see how the contaienr was run, what was run with it, and what hte environment and options were when it started. Then **container stats**, which is sort of a live updating ability to see all containers and what resources they are taking up as they are running.

