# Docker Networks Concepts for Private and Public

Requirements for this section include understanding how to start a container. Then basic TCP/IP networking concepts, such as subnets and IPs and ports and firewalls.

You do not have to know all that, but it will definitely make it a lot easier for you to understand this section which is focused on conceptual stuff, befoure we actually get into a bunch of command line stuff in the next lecture.

So I just want to remind you aboutj the `-p` option on your container run commands which exposes the on your machine. There is actually a lot more going on in the background of **Docker networking** that we will talk about.

Docker has this concept of batteries included but removable which basically meands that the defaults are pretty easy and common to work with, but that we can change a lot of options under the hood.

We will quickly check out in this lecture the container post command that gives you a quick oupput of what ports are open fo that container on your network.

Then we are going to break down some of the concepts of Docker networking and virtual networks and how packets flow around the network.

And we will finish up with a network diagram showing how containers talk amongs each other and how that is different from the `-p` of exposing them onto the physical network.

**Summery:**

- Review of `docker container run -p`
- For local dev/testing, networks usually "just work"
- Quick port check with `docker contaienr port <container>`
- Learn concepts of Docker Networking
- Understand how network packets move around Docker

When we actually start a container, you are really in the background connecting to a particular Docker network. By default, that bridge network, as we will check out in a minute. Then each one of those networks that you would connect to actually route out through a NAT firewall, which is actually the Docker deamon configuring the host IP address on its default interface so that your containers can get out to the Internet or to the rest of your network and then get back.

But we do not actually neet to use the `-p` when we have specific containers wanting to talk to each oterh inside out host.

For example, if we had an application that had a sequel server and PHP apache contaienr, those two containers should be on the same network and they are able to talk to each other without actually opening their ports up to the rest of your physical network.

If you had another application that was unrelated, that let's sys was using Mongo and Node.js, you could create a network for that so that they could talk with each other without using the `-p` to expose them to the network. But they could not actually talk to the other network where you might have an unrealated app running.

**Summery:**
- Each container connected to a private virtual network "bridge".
- Each virtual network routes through NAT firewall on host IP.
- All container on a virtual network can talk to cash other without `-p`.
    + network "my_web_app" for mysql and php/apache containers.
    + network "my_api" for mongo and node.js containers.

But the thing is that just about all those settings I described are actually changeable. And this brings up a good daysing the Docker likes to use... that is batteries included but removable. We will see that throughout ths course that a lot of times there are defaults that just work out of the box.

You do not even have to specify them. You just notice that things are configured in a sort of standard way. But a lot of these options are configurable either at runtime or even changeable after the fact.

And we will see some of that take place here when we play around with the networks. Some of the things that you can actually change would be creating multiple virrual networks, maybe one per app, or different ones based on different security requirements.

We can actually, jsut like in the physical world, hae two physical NISs on a real computer. We can actually have two virtual networks connected to one container, or We can actually have the container talk to no networks.

We an skip any of the virtual network configuration that comes out of the box and actually use `--net=host`, and we will lose some of the containerization benefits. But in some cases it might be required.

Then We are actually going to get into Docker network drivers. There are whole plugin ecosystem around Docker that extends the capabilities of Docker to a lot of third party tools. But in this case we are going to look at a couple of different Docker network drivers and how they might change up out networking and give us new abilites.

This is really just scratching the surface. There are actually networking concepts throughout this course where we will talking about more advanced topic of multi host private networking and concepts like sub interfaces and so on.

**Summery:**
- Batteries Included, But removable.
    + Defaults work weill in many cases, but easy to swap out parts to customize it.
- Make new virutal networks.
- Attach container to more then one virtual network (or none).
- Skil virtual networks and use host IP (--net=host)
- User different Docker network drivers to gain new abilities.
- and extra.

But for now, lets' dive into some command line stuff.

As a quick review let's look the `-` of out container running commands.

`docker container run -p 81:80 --name webhost -d nginx`

If you remember when first run a container, we used the -p to expose port 80 (or 81) of out Nginx. That took the left side, which is the host port and forwards traffic from that port into the port 80 of the container.

> Note: Remember publishing port is always in HOST: CONTAINER format.

If we did `docker container port webhost`, it actually shows this in a nice, easy format which ports are frowarfing traffic to that container from the host into the container itself.

> 80/tcp -> 0.0.0.0:81

We have not talked about the IP address fo the container. So you might just assume that the contaienr is using the same IP as the host. But by default, that is not ture. We can easily get the Docker IP of that container by inspecting it and we are going to use the `format` command, or option really, which we will notice actually has a pretty specific format for how to filter incoming stuff.

> Note: A common option for formatting the output of commands using "Go templates."

You can always use the grep command which we used earlier to filter out your text output, but the `--format`, it is actually a little cleaner and consistent. You do two curly brackets `{{` and then once we get used to knowing the format of the config filem we know that `NetworkSettings.IPAddress` is the actual node of that JSON option that we want to look at. And then `webhost`. Once that means I did not spell it right.

`docker container inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' webhost`

And that is not what we expected. If I was going to use the IP of my host because I know my Macs on my local network and if I do an `ifcongig` on my Linux, I just know that the IP addres i my home network. That is interesting that they are not the same network.

Why are not?

If my host operting system is connected to my network this is my network, means physical network. Then this is the wlp1s0 interface on my host machine.

There is a little firewall in there that does several things. If blocks all incomming traffic coming in from the network. SO that everything is blocked by default. I would call it a firewall. Any traffic that is comming out from my ontainers is going to be NATed by default. It's acting like a pretty common edge firewall on a network.

There is this concept of the virtual networks, and by default, you will see a network called bridge or docker0. When we startt a new container, we will call it C1, that contaienr is attache to that network and that virtual network is automatically attached to your wlp1s0 interface on your host os that can get out.

If out case, when we just launched that Nginx, we gave it a `-p 81:80`. That told it over here to open up port 80 on my wlp1s0 interface on my Linux and forward anything coming into port 80. Through that virtual network to port 80 in that container. By default, when I create a second container, it is put on that same bridge network.

And those two contaienrs can talk freely back and forth on their exposed ports. Unless I specify networks here is going to get to my containers. We can actially create more virtual networks and call them what We want. We am going to call this one net my app, let's say. And let's say I connect two containers here. We got MySQL, Apache. I did not open up any ports and never specified a `-p`. But on the Apache one, I gave it a `-p` of `8181:80`.

That would mean over here on the right at my wlp1s0 interface on my host. It is going to start listening on port 8181. As soon as traffic comes in to my hsot on port 8181, it is going to route We through down to this new virtual network I created and into that Apache server on port 80. Inside this virtual network, the apache server is free to talk to the MySQL server over it is listening port.

Wehn we think about virtual neteorks in Docker, and where containers belong, thing about how we would put different containers in proximity to each other because they are related in their application. As We can see, these two examples, if I had a container one and a container two up top rank something different. If they are not going to be talking to the services in this network down below, then it would make sense to keep them on separate virtual netwotks.

If they ever had to talk to each other, they would have to go through their published potts all the way out and back in. As a reminder, on any interface on our host, we can not listen on more than one port for multiple container. That's means you can not have two containers listening on the port 80 at the hot level. Only one can do that.

If you try to start another container, it would actually error out and say there are already something else on that port. That is not a Docker limitation; that is just a limitation of how IP networking typically works.

> For jsut a quick recate on this lession.

- We actually spent a lot of time on the concepts of Docker networking. Including the exposing of ports on out host to the physical network using `-p`.
- The idea of Docker focusing on same defaults where they call it batteries included but removable.
- How for local dev and testing, our probably can just get by the defaults, but everyting is changeable.
- Then we learned about the container port command which is a uick way to look at the ports exposed for our particular containers.
- We brock down the packedts moveing arounf virtual networks and how those relae to other virtual networks and how they get in and out of our Docker machine.

So, there are all really goof concepts to understand as we jump in to actual CLI stuff after the next.
