# Docker Networks CLI Management

For this lecture, we need to understand some of the previous concepts around networking and also around creating containers. Now that we understand the concepts of Docker networking and how all the virtual networking and IP stuff works. Let's look at some of the command line option manageing it.

- Show network
    + `docker network ls`
- Inspect a network
    + `docker network inspect`
- Create a network
    + `docker network create --driver`
- Detach a network from container
    + `docker container disconnect`

First, there is the obvious netwkrk `ls`. Since we can create multiple networks, we surely have an `ls` command to list them.

We have the usual `inspect` command which we are probably used to by new from all the other inspecting we are doing. That will show us to details about a specific network.

Then we have a create command that has an optional driver that we can specify for using built-in and third-partu drivers to create a new virtual network.

Then we have to connect and disconnect commands for changeing a live running container so that a new NIC is created on a virtual network for that container. It is kind of like sticking a network card in a computer while it is running.

So, let's go on terminal and taking the concepts that we just learned,, I can actually do a under this command. This shows me all of the networks that have been created.

`docker network ls`

In this case when you run the same command, you are probaly going to see the same three Depending on your operating system and version of Docker. We might see the bridge network called **docker0** or brifge, but they both mean the same thing. Whisi is it's the default network that bridge through the **NAT** firewall to the physical network that your most host is connected to. Up untill now, we hae not bad to worry about it bevause all out container have jsut attached to that network and worked.

> Note: Default Docker virtul network, which is NAT'ed behind the HOST IP.


Now that we have this Nginx container running, if I do inspect command, the bridge network, 

`docker network inspect bridge`

we will actually see that it lists the containers attached to the neteotk. We will see that out Nginx one, that we called webhost, is attached there. We can actually see its IP Address. And we will see up here that these networks automatically assign IP addresses, and it is showing we here with the IPAM config that the subnet defaults to 172.17... Which is typically the default network fot any Docker host.

But it can be changed and then the gateway for this network that will eventually route out to the physical network. If we went back to the network ls, we can see these other two networks.

`docker network ls`

The host network is what we talked about before that is a special network that skips the virtual networking of Docker and attaches the contaienr directly to the host interface.

> Note: It gains performance by skipping virtual networks but sacrifices security of container model.

As you can imagine, there's pros and cons to that because it prevents the security boundaries of the containerization from pertection the interface of that container. But it also, in certain situations, can improve the performance of high throughput networking and get aroung a fre other issues with specific special software out there.

Then we have the last one of none, which is kind of the equivalent of having an interface on our computer that is not attached to anything, but we can create out own.

> Note: removes wlp1s0 and only leaves you with localhost interface in container.

Let's create a Docker network.

`docker network create my_app_net`

> 5e79903a9f2623dc659b6ae631dffda5f7cf788cab620c9d9c4818aacf43bf0d

Now if we check `network ls` then we will notice our new virtual network with a divve of bridge is created.

`docker network ls`

```
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER              SCOPE
ab52a4214917        bridge              bridge              local
7208a71fb80a        host                host                local
5e79903a9f26        my_app_net          bridge              local
657168f8df91        none                null                local
```

And that is because that is the default diriver. It is a simple driver that simply creates a virtual network locally with its own subnet somewhere around the 172.17 and above, because it will increment as it goges. So 17, then 18, 19, 20 and so on.

> Note: Built-in or 3rd party extensions that give us virtual network features.

It does not have any of the advanced featured that we might see later in the course, like overlaid networks that allow private networking between hosts, and other third party drivesr like **Weave**.

If you look at the `docker network crate command with --help`, you will see that I can specify not just the driver that I want to use, but a lot of the IP and network options than we might need in an advanced scenario.

We can do serveral things with there networks and how we connect them to our containers. We can use the --network option when we create a container.

`docker container run -d --name new_nginx --network my_app_net nginx`

If we did a docker network inspect on the my app network, you would see that the new Nginx. We just created is now on that network. It has a new IP address of 172.18. So it is the next subnet in the list.

```
"Containers": {
    "a2050e4b6f5a8cd05995b02d33751fe016509c05a8998322e346e9f3b94be0cf": {
        "Name": "new_nginx",
        "EndpointID": "d9b2d209fd9b4edba4251fe8413e1a3c488d5dfa6ca2c03f3b7b705dde0e3325",
        "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:12:00:02",
        "IPv4Address": "172.18.0.2/16",
        "IPv6Address": ""
    }
},
```

But we don not actually have to start new containers, because just like in the real world where we can unplug and replug in Ethernet device and reconnect to wireless networks, we can also do the same with existing networks and existing container. For this, we use the docker network connect and disconnect options and we can use `--help`.

`docker network --help`

For this, we use the docker network connect and disconnect options and we can use --help. TO see all the options there for docker network. In this cause, what we want to do is docker network, and we want ot take existing container that we created first and connect it to our new network.

I am going to pick the new app_network, and then I am goin to pick the original webhost we created.

```
docker network connect 5e79903a9f26 3710efddc0f2

5e79903a9f26 -> Network (my_app_net) UID
3710efddc0f2 -> Contaienr (webhost) UID
```

Now if We do a docker container inspect of my original webhost, we will see that it is actually now on two networks. The original bridge network and I basically did the equivalent of giving it a new Ethernet interface on a different network, with a IP htat was received from the DHCP. So we are now on the 17 network and in the 18 network.

```
"Networks": {
                "bridge": {
                    "IPAMConfig": null,
                    "Links": null,
                    "Aliases": null,
                    "NetworkID": "ab52a42149170bcfb28e75209a9bc2c29f7e0b9cdc182d3a107d36c7ecd7f3d2",
                    "EndpointID": "beb277478b3d4e89b98253087afa94e1af9f8f6921596a964aa597d6dafb141f",
                    "Gateway": "172.17.0.1",
                    "IPAddress": "172.17.0.2",
                    "IPPrefixLen": 16,
                    "IPv6Gateway": "",
                    "GlobalIPv6Address": "",
                    "GlobalIPv6PrefixLen": 0,
                    "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:11:00:02",
                    "DriverOpts": null
                },
                "my_app_net": {
                    "IPAMConfig": {},
                    "Links": null,
                    "Aliases": [
                        "3710efddc0f2"
                    ],
                    "NetworkID": "5e79903a9f2623dc659b6ae631dffda5f7cf788cab620c9d9c4818aacf43bf0d",
                    "EndpointID": "dd3617777cb2639cf53c2f1d8c33a13aae3dd2cad11fd87b10f84789fec1ca00",
                    "Gateway": "172.18.0.1",
                    "IPAddress": "172.18.0.3",
                    "IPPrefixLen": 16,
                    "IPv6Gateway": "",
                    "GlobalIPv6Address": "",
                    "GlobalIPv6PrefixLen": 0,
                    "MacAddress": "02:42:ac:12:00:03",
                    "DriverOpts": null
                }
            }
```

If we wanted to disconnect that, I could do the same with just disconnect.

`docker network disconnect 5e79903a9f26 3710efddc0f2`

Then if I went back and did an inspection agian, we will see that it is now back with my the one network.

`docker container inspect 3710efddc0f2`

## Docker Networks: Default Security

- Create our apps so frontend / backend sit on same Docker network.
- Their inter communication never leves host.
- All externally exposed ports closed by default.
- We must manually expose via `-p`, which is better default security!

As we can see, there is lots of interesting options for Docker networking and really the end goal here and one thing I love the brag about with containers, is that is we are running all the applications on a single server. In this case, you are able to really project them.

Because in the physical world where creating virtual machines and hostis in a network, we would ofter overexpose the ports and networking on out application servers.

In this case, if we were to take out app containers and have them all in one network together in a virutal networks, we are only going to be exposing the ports on our host that we specifically use the `-p` with. And everthing else is a little bit safer with that protected firewall inside their virtual nework.

Later on, when we get into **Docker Swarm**, we are actually goin to learn about multi-host networking and how this gets event better when we start to scale up and scale out.

### Recape this lession:

- We just covered a bunch of commands for managing Docker networks.
- We palyed around with the `ls` and the `inspect` commands.
- created a Docker network and used the default driver of bridge. We did not actually need to use a --diriver.
- We tried out the `neteork connect` and the `network disconnect` commands for adding and then removeing a NIC from a running container. 