# Docker DNS Networking

Requirments for this lession are we have seen the privious network lecture understanding and key concept for docker network and the commands. We will going to learn learn and play with **DNS** and how it affects containers in custom networks and default network.

- Understand how DNS is the key to easy inter-container comms.
- See how it works by default with custom networks.
- Learn how to use `--link` to enable DNS on default bridge network.

We are going to overquickly how imporant it is that we have good DNS because we can not realy on IP addresses inside containers since thing are so dynamic.

We are looking at the difference between defult and custom networks in regards to how thay deal with DNS.

And we will check out the `--link` option for the container run for enabling DNS on the default **bridge network**.

One more thing that is crucial to all of these containers and virtual networks and them takeing to each other and thats nameing. Because in the world of container constantly launching and disappearing and moveing and expanding and shrinking. All the wonderfulness of these micro services that we are seeing crop up everywhere, is that we no longer can easily rely on IP addresses as the way to talk from one thing to other. Because we can not assume from the minute that the IP addresses are even going to be the same.

> Note: Static IP's and Using IP's for talking to containers is an anti-patern. Do your best to avoid it.

The contaienr might go away or it might fall and then Docker brings it up somewhere else. It is just to dynamic and too complicated to deal with that. So turns out that there is a built-in solution for this and this is **DNS naming**. Docker use the container names as the equivalent of a host name for container talking to each others.

> Note: DOcker daemon has built-in DNS server that containers use by default.

Now if you remember that is we just have two container running and may be you have remember the Nginx was on a network called *my_app_net*. And has one container on it.

`docker container ls -a`

```
a2050e4b6f5a        nginx               "nginx -g 'daemon of…"   2 days ago          Exited (0) 47 hours ago                       new_nginx
3710efddc0f2        nginx               "nginx -g 'daemon of…"   3 days ago          Exited (0) 47 hours ago                       webhost
```

```
docker container start a2050e4b6f5a 3710efddc0f2
docker container ls
```

```
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                NAMES
a2050e4b6f5a        nginx               "nginx -g 'daemon of…"   2 days ago          Up 9 seconds        80/tcp               new_nginx
3710efddc0f2        nginx               "nginx -g 'daemon of…"   3 days ago          Up 8 seconds        0.0.0.0:81->80/tcp   webhost
```

`docker network ls`

```
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER              SCOPE
2d7eba7cd601        bridge              bridge              local
7208a71fb80a        host                host                local
5e79903a9f26        my_app_net          bridge              local
657168f8df91        none                null                local
```

`docker network inspect 5e79903a9f26`

Because we created this new network. That was not default network bridge, it actually gets a special new feature which is automatic DNS resolution for all the containers one that virtual network from all the other containers on that virtual network using there contaienr names.

If we create a second contaienr on the virtual network, they will abole to find each other, regardless of the IP address is, with there container names.

> Note: Docker defaults the hostname to the container's name, but you can also set aliases.

So, let's try this:

`docker container run -d --name my_nginx --network my_app_net nginx`

> 96210e1abd93603dc3d20a283a67856d29caee4bd0f143813241ce4fb83b07f7

We call it my_nginx and we are going to specify the file network as my_app_net from the nginx image. Now if we look at the network, we should see the two containers, if I do a `docker container exec` from the container we just created.

We need to set a configuration file in it to talk to, maybe let's say the PHP server will talk to the MySQL backend. Ctrl-c out of that, and you'll see that it works the other way as well.

Now we shold note, if we do docker network list the default bridge network has one disadvantage here.

`docker network ls`

It does not have the DNS server built into it by default. So we can use the link. When we create a container you will notice there was a link option and you can actually specify manual links between container and default bridge network.

`docker container create --help`

> --link list                      Add link to another container


But really it is just much easier to create a network for your app so that we do not have to do this every time. And in the future leason, we will talk about **Docker Compose**, we will see how so much of this gets even easier. Because **Compose** automatically will create new virtual networks whenever you spin up an app with it.

> As a quick recape:

- Rely on IP addresses for takeing to each other because they just can not be relied on.
- The that DNS is really standared here for how we do intercommunication between container on the same host and the across host.
- We remind you always creae custom network since it is just easier that the way than doing a `--link` all the time.
- We give you a tester **Docker Compose** and how it doing to make all this easier especially the networking. 
